Welcome back fantastic God people in this video are going to fulfil a lifelong dream that I'm sure you've
probably shared with me in this video we're going to learn how to sneak around in a box.
What we have to do is give the player the option of disguising themselves.
Metal Gear Solid style as a box and sneaking around in plain sight.
Later were at penalties for doing that.
But for now let's just put the functionality in before we do that.
Let's talk about how this works.
SPCS check if the player is in line of sight field of you and range.
If all three of those are true then it sends a signal saying play a scene.
We know that you're the player because we're checking against your collision lair.
Actually we're checking our collision mask to see if that matches your collision there.
But that's the same thing.
Okay so if the player is on a certain point in the collision layer we know you're the player.
So what happens if we move you to a new place in the collision layer.
That's not going to set up.
If we look over at the player and we go down to a collision on a physics knowledge hoodie collision
we can see the players on the player and we can mouse over it bit zero and value 1.
Okay.
So at touraine that's bit one value two security cameras I'm only reinforces the value at this point
four and guards are 8 so 1 2 4 8.
This one is 16.
What's happening here is that these are binary values right.
We don't need to figure out the numbers in binary.
We could just mouseover this empty box here and see that is of value 16.
Cool.
Let's make a new physics layer.
And the project settings our scroll down to lay innings to do physics and lay a five is going to be
disguise.
Great.
And just to double check disguise if a mouse over it is value 16.
Okay before we put this in code if we just change the player's collision there we're going to crash
again and I'll show you why we're going to open a script into scripts and let's go down to play the
action the bit that's going to crash us is right here.
Function player is in line of sight.
Why.
Let's go.
Happens we define a couple of variables with defined space and line of sight obstacle the thing that's
between me and where I'm looking.
Then we say if the line of sight obstacle Collider is the player.
If I change this collision mask there is nothing there.
Right.
So line a slight obstacle is a variable that will remain empty.
So when we check it it won't have a collider and this will crash.
So instead let's add an extra thing right here.
So and we're going to do diff s obstacle or what am I saying.
If there isn't one so if not l'eau s obstacle return FALSE this return is going to stop this function
from running so I'll stop here on my line 38 and return the value phos.
And we're checking.
True and False CV places.
So if this is false don't even worry about what happens so it doesn't matter if there is no Minocycline
No we've already had time false.
Okay let's make this actually works.
Back into the play a dodgy and on ready.
I'm just going to add collision on the score mask equals 16.
Just to test it.
How do I know collision mask is a prop..
Well I got to play a mouse over collision lay up the propertys collision there.
I actually mean collision led not collision mask.
I keep doing that collision.
Leah is 16.
I'm really glad I showed you that.
Okay let's Pressplay what I'm expecting.
I'm expecting no play detection surplus wand up to a light and hello see me.
Hello.
No play that actionless open a door.
I don't know the combination but yeah that's right.
So let's get rid of collision.
Exciting.
Let's carried the skies.
If we're going to graphics PRNG tiles scroll down there's some boxes.
I quite like tile one to night.
And let's open global GDP.
If it's not up here in as many for you we have to find it it's under scripts so to Scripps global genie
back into our tights I want to set up a couple of pages so astute variable box Sprite.
There is an equals and variable player sprite's.
OK what's the box right box right.
Is this once I move to right click on it and do copy path and just paste it in here.
And that's a strength as do the same for players as a finite player man.
Lou no one man.
There is a copy path.
Okay so we now switch between the box Sprite and the place bright save that go back into the place script.
I want to make a brand new function called disguise.
Function looks.
Mix of space or s he would a function discusses.
I also want the opposite of the skies I look pass for now just make a couple more functions this to
function reveal.
And I feel like we should have a function called toggle disguised because one be able to toggle between
them.
So function.
Toggle the disguise.
There's no pass.
Here's my question though.
Very nice.
So I know I have top disguise revealed in disguise.
Actually I move tugela skies up a bit so I'm going to highlight them on Windows and a barrow.
And that's all looking very shiny.
Okay so let's make toggled disguise work.
When I go into my project settings to input map I want to key or actually top of the disguise I'm told
the sky's on.
It feels a bit key.
So let's make an action called toggle disguise.
Add that and bind a key to it so Plus key press E done.
Just double check of using e anywhere else doesn't know what I am.
Now let's make the egie DO something we already have an input of and for measurement change so if inputs
dot is action just pressed and that's going to be toggle the skies which has my top one that's lovely.
So if you pressed I would disguise run toggle disguise.
That feels easy.
Let's just check that I've done that correctly by printing a very helpful message loop.
I can see my output console at boop boop boop boop boop boop.
OK.
So that's working.
I don't actually want to print boob every time.
So let's go back at the top of script.
Am I going to make one more variable this variable is going be called disguised.
And we've set it to false so go make a boulis invariably true false variable right at the top of script
and second check.
Are you disguised.
And now let's put some logic in if disguised.
So if you're already the skies reveal or else disguise and was put hide but hide is it different is
a built in function and we can't use that because oldest remove this from his ability.
That's not what disguise actually does.
All right so we have a reveal and disguise set in and actually put them in the same order that we've
put them here.
And let's see what revealed us will reveal.
Is going to set my place bright so we are in the play a script so that should work especially when the
play a scene that's open play a scene.
I'm doing this so that auto is going to work.
I'll go and change our sprite's so Sprite dot and we do not want the texture.
Yeah spike texture.
Equals global dot.
Play a Sprite
and the box is going to be Sprite.
Texture.
He calls global dot box right.
So let's run that and see if the disguise works.
And it's very excitingly not working.
Oh.
Because that's not a string that's an object so let's load that in.
And now that should work lobal no global should really pay attention on typing.
And now I press E on the box.
I'm a person I'm not a person I'm just a box.
Why.
Because I'm not setting disguise as true or false so disguised equals false and disguise equals true.
So when you reveal yourself you're not disguised.
And when you when you describe yourself you are disguised.
Let's try one more time.
Great.
They'll notice that the player is still showing.
Right.
And the reason is this light is shining through.
We need to change this light source and this includer back in the script where we reveal ourselves.
I want the light to be dot.
And what's the light 2D prop. I think that's a texture as well texture.
Fantastic.
Texture to be.
It's actually exactly the same as this.
Isn't that because we're loading in that sprite.
Let's do the same thing for box.
This time I'm just going to duplicate this line which in Windows is control beep.
And instead of Sprite texture it's going to be light 2D texture.
Let's give that a shot.
Okay.
Now the inclusionist all wrong.
Right.
So if I wander up here look at the shadow on casting to see that actually click on light acclivity then
under a cloud it's as character as we inherit it from the character.
Let's say that this little disc I can save as and I'll put it in characters because that's fine.
And I call this character occluding Dottie Arias.
Awesome.
Now let's change the player's texture to be the box.
So do do do.
Where are you Sprite and just drag over file.
What time what want.
9.
We're not gonna get the light right now because if we fix that instead let's change the colours in shape.
So I made clear this a this character cleared great let's make a new one as you can see I've got my
grid set up and I've set my snap to 8 pixels by eight pixels.
Why.
This is a 64 by 64 image.
It divides nicely into that.
Let's make a new occlude a polygon and click on the pencil and you can click click click click click.
I'm going to close it.
I don't mind that it's not that it's close and there's no light coming in because we have light inside
it so that's going to work.
Let's save this include some.
Click on the includer and press the disk save as and this is going to be box a clue.
Awesome.
So now here's my challenge for you.
I'd like you to change the players occlusion to match the shape of the box when the player is a box.
For extra credit try and change you back as well.
Pause the video give them a shot and when you ready come back and I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
Alright so the first thing I do is put these files in that same reference in the same global skeps so
into my script.
Couldn't find it and I make a couple variable so variable box occlude a spell of concluder looks good
and variable player.
Okay now let's find box secluding So that's going to be inside our scenes inside our characters and
this character occlude and basically and a right click on execute a copy path and pasted in and we do
the same with player player character occlude up that's what we call it copy path and put it right here.
Great.
So it is going to the script and under light to the texture.
I'm going to do like to clowder and I want to change a property mouse mouseover find the property I
want.
It's right here.
Clowder there it is.
So lot of clutter equals and then I'm going to load the resource in so I need to convert it from a string
which is where it is in the global file to have a file to an object load cos it as a file.
Google dot player underscore a cluster and then I'm going to duplicate this line controller B and then
move it down with old and down arrow and change it from player occlude to box includer.
And that should work.
So let's Pressplay.
I'm a box.
I'm a player.
I'm a player now.
Right now I'm not disguised I'm just being a box right so we can put the disguise.
But look it looks great.
Let's actually reset this texture.
Because this is the wrong texture.
So let's put the Sprite back as it should be graphics PRNG and a drag member here.
Great.
Let's make the actual disguise work now.
So I need to do is I said collision layer
as one when you revealed how I know it's one guy look at the laser mouse over it value one.
OK.
And when you're disguised you're going to be value 16 so let's put that in duplicate that and move it
down.
And that should be good to go.
Let's find out.
So here we are square player.
And we could be seeing what we're seeing.
And I'm a box.
You can't see me.
I'm in disguise.
Ha ha ha.
Now right now there's no penalty for this right so we're going to put some penalties in later.
You can only be a box for a set amount of time.
You move slow in your box and let's say you can only be a box as you can only be a box set another time
per level so you're limited by how many times you can be a box how long your box and how quickly you
can move.
But for now I'm a in a box.
One thing we haven't done is change our collision right.
We're a box but we are using the collider for a person if you want to go ahead and change that you should
have the tools available.
But if you're not too worried about it like right now I'm not too worried about it maybe later but right
now it's fine.
Leave the ISS.
And that brings us to the end of the video.
In this video we've looked at how a change collision layers in script.
We've loaded sprite's inclusion in script and fulfilled your lifelong dreams of being a box.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.